Hello friends, my name is Vishva Goal and
welcome to my channel Invest In Show.
Friends, in the recent GST meeting of the government, the
government has reduced the GST on life
insurance and health insurance
premiums to zero.  But
health insurance premium is reduced.
Similarly, premiums for term insurance in life insurance have
also been reduced.
So today in this video we
will compare 12 term insurance products
so that if you are looking for a good term plan for yourself
then your dilemma will be
resolved after watching this video.  Earlier also we had
made a video on the best term plan in 2024
and you all had given a lot of love.  Today
in this video again our effort is to
cover all the things and if anything is
left then you can ask us in the comment box.
We will try to answer your questions.
Let's do the comparison.
Friends, the 12 health insurance
products here are HDFC Click to
Protect Supreme, Tata L Sampoorna Raksha,
ICIC Life iProtect Smart Plus,
Digit Glo+ AV L Signature 3D Term Plan,
SBI L Smart Shield Plus, Bajaj L ETH
Axis Max L Smart Term Plan Plus, Kotak
Let Term Plan, Aitya Bla Super Term Plan,
Ban LTM Plan, LIC's Tech Term Plan. So,
we will see the features of all these products.  We will
look at their optional covers.   We will
look at their premiums.  We will
look at the claim settlement ratio of the company.  Overall there are a
lot of things.  We will cover them all
in this video.  First of all let us talk about the
sum insured.  Friends, here
in almost all the companies, sum insured of Rs 25 lakh is available.
In some companies the minimum sum
insured is Rs 50.  If I
talk about maximum sum assured, then based on
eligibility, the
company provides you that much term insurance as per your eligibility.
If I talk about the minimum and
maximum policy term, then here
in almost all the companies the
minimum policy term is from five years to 10 years.  If I
talk about the maximum policy term, then here
some companies are giving you coverage of 99 years and 100
years.  Whereas
in some companies you get coverage from 70 years to 85
years.  If I
talk about the maximum maturity age here, then
here again there are five companies where you are being
given coverage up to 99 years and 100 years.
Again, in all other companies, you
get coverage for 70 to 85 years.   Let me
talk about the premium payment type i.e.
how do you want to pay the premium?  So
here premium payment is done in three ways.  The
first is single pay where you will
pay the premium only once and the rest of your
policy will continue for life as long as your policy
term is.  The second is
limited pay where you make payment for some period
and your
policy continues for the remaining term.  The third one is
regular pay.  You will have to keep paying as long as your policy is in force.
So
if you see here, limited and regular pay is being given in almost all the companies.
In some companies, the option of single pay is also being
given here.  Now let's talk about
what options the company is giving you in limited pay.
So here if you look at the screen, then
in almost all the companies the minimum
term of limited pay is five years
and if we talk about the maximum, then here the
option of payment till 60 years is being given.
However, if you look here,
in some companies you are being given the option of customized limited
pay.  You can choose limited pay period as per your convenience like 18 years, 19
years, 22 years.
Now let's
talk about premium payment mode.  So
here if you look at the screen, you will see that
monthly,
quarterly, half-yearly, yearly options are being given in almost all the companies.
However, here in ICICI, SBI
, Ban Life and your LIC you do
not get the quarterly option.  Now let's
talk about change in premium method.  So
friends, many times it happens that when we
take a policy, we take the regular option.
But in the future, when we achieve
financial stability,
we feel like paying our term
premium as soon as possible and
finishing it.  So there some companies
give you the option of converting it into limited pay.
So here options are being given in HDFC, L, ICIC and Aitya
Birla.  Where
you can convert your regular pay into limited pay and
terminate your policy as early as possible.  Next is the spouse cover
option.  So here its coverage is being given in four companies.
Where if you want, you can
add your spouse along with you in the policy.  There are
some conditions here.
Basically, a
maximum of 50% of the eligibility of the primary insured person can be given to his/her spouse as a
sum insured.  Some companies have a
condition where the spouse
's cover gets activated only after the death of the primary insured.
Any person who is
looking for a policy for his/her spouse should
understand the terms and conditions of all these four companies.  Only then
take the product.  Next is increasing cover option.  So
this is a great option where the company says
apart from your base sum assured the company will keep
increasing your sum assured every year.
So here you are being given options in four companies.
For example,
in HDFC L, you will get 5% increase from the second year
which will increase till the fifth year and
10% increase from the sixth year which will
go up to a maximum of 2X.  200% off the base sum
issue goes.  For example, if a person has
taken a policy of Rs 1 crore, then in the second year
it will become Rs 1 crore 5 lakh.  Third year will be Rs 1
crore 10 lakh.  It will keep increasing like this and the
sum insured increases up to 200% i.e. up to Rs 2 crore.
Similarly,
in different companies,
you are being given increasing cover option as per different criteria.
This is a great option for a person who wants
that as his age increases, his
sum insured should keep increasing, so this is a great feature
which the company is basically providing to its customers.
Next is the smart
exit option.  So tomorrow,
after 20 years of taking the policy, if you feel that now
all my responsibilities are over
and I do not need term issues, then the
company is also giving you the option of smart exit.
Where the
company returns all the premium you were paying.
However, here
you are not given any kind of interest
and the company does not return whatever tax you were paying.  If
you
look here,
its coverage is being given in almost all the companies except three companies.
But the smart exit option is different
in different companies
according to different criteria.  So
whenever you finalize a product, check its
criteria and know
when you can exercise the smart exit option in it.  Next
is return of premium.  So again this
is a very good feature where the company says that
if tomorrow you choose the return of premium option, then
as soon as the
policy matures, the
company returns all your premium.
Again, the GST you pay in this is
not refunded to you.
Plus, your rider premiums are
also not refunded and
you do not get any interest.
So if you see here, in 50% of the companies
you are being given the return of premium option
and in 50% of the companies you do
not get the return of premium option.  Next is
terminal illness cover.  So here,
if the insured person gets a terminal illness
, an incurable disease, then
if two doctors certify
that he cannot survive for more than 6 months, then the
company
gives him the sum insured before his death.  Different
companies have different criteria.  Some
company gives 50%.  Some companies give 100%.
But if you look here, almost
50% of the companies are providing this terminus coverage here.
50% of the companies are not providing coverage here.
Next is the option to delay
premium.  Friends, sometimes it happens that
our financial position deteriorates to the point
where we are unable to pay our annual premium.
So here the company
again gives you the option where you
can delay your premium for 1 year.  That means it
gives one year's time.  Your
policy remains active.  No type of
lab goes into status.  After 1 year,
when your next renewal comes,
you will have to pay the premium for both the years
before the end of the
grace period.  If you do not pay, then in that
case the company will put your policy
in lapsed status and whatever paid up
value is there will be given to you and the
policy will be closed there itself.  Next
is waiver of premium.  So here the company
again says that if a person gets term
encashment then
he does not need to pay any future premium.  The
company waves him off.
So here in only three companies
you are being given coverage of Ware of Premium on Term and Less.
Next is immediate
claim payout.  So friends, here again this is
a good feature where the company says that
if any insured person dies, then the
company immediately
gives some sum insured amount to his nominee
or here
different immediate pay outs are being given in different companies.
However, if the
claim is rejected for any reason during investigation, the
amount paid by the company
is recovered.  Next is wellness benefit.  So
here again in 50% of the companies you are being
given balance benefit.  Where the company
provides you many things on online basis to stay fit.
Some provide you with videos.
Provides online consultations.  Some
discounts are provided at their
network service centers.  So all those things are being given to
you in these particular balance benefits.
Next is the option to
increase life cover.  So here again there
is a very good feature where the company says that
if tomorrow at the time of maturity you feel that
I need coverage for more time then
you can extend the time.
You get its coverage in Tata and Max Life.
Now let's talk about some add-ons
which you can add to your term insurance and
make it a fully future term plan.  The
first optional rider is the
critical illness rider.  In this, basically the
company provides you lump sum payout
in case of diagnosis of critical illness.
So here you have to choose a particular sum insured.
For how much period do you
need it and which one? And here,
if the person suffers from any disease from the company's critical illness list, then the
company gives him a lump sum amount and there the
benefit of this add-on rider gets
closed.  So if you see here,
for example, in HDFC the company is
giving you the option of coverage up to 85 years.
Here coverage of 60 critical illnesses is being given
and the option of sum insured up to Rs 1 crore is being
given.  Similarly, different
companies have different age criteria.   The
number of critical lists is different and
different options of sum insured are also being given.
Next is waiver of premium on
diagnosis of critical illness and
accidental disability.  So this is again a
good feature where if a person gets a
critical illness or gets
disabled due to an accident, gets a
permanent disability, then the company
waives off his future premium
and whenever he dies, it
gives the money to his nominee, so here
again you have to choose the period, you have to
choose the sum insured.
Different coverage is being provided in different companies.
For example, in HDFC L you are being given the
benefit of waiver of premium for critical illness.
If you see,
you will see that in Axis Max Left,
here in Aditya Birla, you are being given
coverage for both critical infirmity and accidental disability.
Next is accidental
death benefit.  So if a person chooses this option
, chooses the sum insured
, then apart from normal term
insurance, the sum insured chosen here,
that extra amount
is given to his nominee.  For example, if a
person has a normal term insurance of Rs 1 crore
and if he has
taken an accidental death benefit of Rs 1 crore.  If tomorrow
he dies in an accident, then Rs
2 crore is given to his nominee.
Again here you have to choose a specific
period and you have to
choose the sum insured.  Now let's talk about the
Accidental Disability Rider.  So here
if you see, again in 50% of the companies
you are being given coverage of accidental disability rider.
Where if a
person suffers permanent
disability due to an accident, then based on the
disability he has suffered,
he is given a percentage of the sum insured according to the percentage of disability.
For more details you
can read brush of particular company.  So friends, these were all
common add ons.  Now let's talk about some
special add-ons which are being given in every product.  First of all let's
talk about
HDFC L.  So here you are being given cancer cover.
So, if a person
wants to take separate cancer cover in his term issue, then
its coverage is being provided here.
Tata Life offers you hospital care.
Where a person is
hospitalized due to any illness or accident, then the
company provides him a separate amount every day.
Spouse cover is being provided in ICC Life.  Nothing like this is
found in disease.  At Aiva Life, you are provided with Cancer and
Cardio cover.
Spouse cover is being provided in SBI Life.  In Bajaj L,
you are being given a special rider of Parent Income and Child Income.
Here,
Axis Max Left offers early return of
Premium Plus and Smart Cover.
Aditya Birla L
offers a special rider for surgical care and hospital.
So friends, this is how we
talked about all the features of the product.  Now let us talk about
what will be the next process if the insured person dies tomorrow
?  So here friends, first of all let us talk about
death form.  So friends,
if you see here, the form of Bajaj L, Bandhan and
LIC is short.
Not much details are asked
compared with other companies.  In HDFC, SBI
and Axis Max Le is moderate.
Not much.  In all other companies, your
form is a little longer.  You will have to
provide more details.  Now let's talk about
how the claim is tracked when it is filed tomorrow.
So here the
option of online tracking is being given in almost all the companies.
Except for SBI and LIC
because both are government oriented companies.
Now let us talk about how the claim payout is
received.  Friends, here the
company pays out the claim in three ways.  You
can say it one time or lump sum.  Where
as soon as the insured person dies, the
entire money is given to his nominee
and the policy gets closed there.  The
second is installment and
income where a certain amount is given to him on monthly basis, half yearly
basis or annual basis
and is given for a certain period.  The
third option there is
mixed of both.  Where some amount is
given to him as lump sum and some amount is given to him as income.
If you
look here, both
types of options are being offered in almost all the companies.  Here
in Digit, Aiva and Bandhan,
only one time option is being given at present.
If you see, here in ICICI Life
you are also being given the option of increasing income.
Where every year, if you want, you can
increase your income for a
specific period.  Now let's talk about the
percentage of claims settled within these 30 days.  So
if you see here, almost all the
companies are being given above 95%.
However, if you look here, Bajaj
L is a little less compared to other
companies.  Now let's talk about claim settlement
in terms of volume.  So if you
see here, LIC is a little behind.
Friends, the reason for this is that the
volume here is the highest for LIC compared to
other companies.  Now let's talk about the
claim settlement amount.  So here the
claim settlement amount ratio of Bajaj L
is less compared with other companies.  If we consider
which company has given a good claim settlement
amount here, then ICICI L has the
best one.  Aiba's is good, SBI's is good.
Axis Max L's is good.  Now let's
talk about company solvency ratio.  So
friends, this basically
tells the financial strength of the company to pay its long term
debts.  So if tomorrow a Corona situation arises, then
how does the company settle the claims of its customers?  Normally, as per
IRDA rules, it
is necessary to maintain 1.5, which almost all the companies are
doing.  But if I talk about which
company is maintaining the most, then
here Digit and Bajaj L are
maintaining the most.  Now let's talk about
premium.  So friends,
for your reference, we have calculated the premium for a 35 year old person.
Where regular
premium has also been withdrawn and limited pay for
15 years premium has also been withdrawn.  And this
coverage is of One CR till the age
of 65.  So friends, if you see here, the
premium of almost all the companies is around this.
HDFC L has a little more.  But at the
same time, here the company is
giving you the option of increasing live cover.  Due to which
this premium appears to be a little higher.
If we talk about low premium, then the
premium of Digit is low here.  Rest there
is almost a difference of Rs 1000-2000.
In comparison to all other companies.  So friends, we have
talked about the premium which a normal
person can get.  But if a
person has any disease like BP,
sugar, cholesterol or asthma or
any such disease which
is not in life threatening condition but he is
taking its medicine normally, then the company charges him 50%
extra and gives him the policy.
For example, if a normal person has a
premium of Rs 10,000, then he will have to
pay a premium of Rs 15,000.  Similarly,
friends, if a person is smoking
or drinking, then again the
company charges him 50% extra and
gives him the policy.  Now let's talk about
discounts, friends, here every
company is providing some discount or the other.
However, if you see,
every company is providing salary discount here
except for SBI and LIC and
some companies are providing first year online
premium discount here and
some companies are
providing you discount in lifetime premium here.
For example, in ICICI and Kotak you
get a premium discount of some percentage at life.  Now friends, let's talk about USB of
each and every product.  So friends, here
in HDFC L you are being given spouse cover.
Parent protection is being provided.
Parent secure is being provided.  The
option of change premium method is being given.
If I talk about Tata Le, here
you are being given a hospier.  Child
protection cover is being provided.  Premium
waiver is being given.  In this way friends,
every product has some benefits or the other.
So you look at your requirement.
According to that you will understand which
product is better for you.  Now let's talk about some
terms and conditions.  First of all let's talk about the
free look up period.  Friends,
whenever you take a policy, when your policy is
issued, the company gives you 30 days' time,
where if you feel that this policy
is not right for me or there is a better
option, then if you
send the policy back to the company, then the company does not make any deduction in it
and
returns the entire money.  Next
is the grace period.  So if you purchase a policy, then
when the renewal
comes next year, it gives 30 days time after renewal.
Where you can pay your premium.
If your 30 days are crossed then the
company puts your policy
in lab status.  Next is the
revival period.  So, due to some other
financial constraints, if you are
not able to continue your policy after two-three years, then the
company again gives you up to 5 years
from the date of last unpaid premium.  So
if you want, you can revive your policy within 5 years.
However, here
again the company gives some terms and conditions.
You will have to pay the old premium.  There will be
some interest, you will have to pay that.
You will have to give a health declaration.  The
company may also ask you to undergo a health
checkup.  So after all these conditions
your policy can be revived.
Next is surrender value.  So again this is
term insurance.  There is
no surrender value in this.  However,
here if a person uses limited pay or
single payer, then some
companies return some percentage to him
in case of surrender.  Now let's talk about the
suicide clause.  So here there
is a waiting period of one year.  That means suicide is
covered after 1 year.  If a
person commits suicide before 1 year, then in that
case the company does not give him any kind of
sum assured benefit.  But
whatever premium he has paid, the
company returns 80% of it to his nominee.
Next is tax benefit.  So as per the
current rule you get tax benefit of term insurance in AT&C.
But if you have
moved to the new slab then you do
not get any kind of tax benefit there.
So friends, this is how we
covered all the things about the product.  I hope you
liked the information.  We have given the brushes of the product
in the description link.  If you
want, you can go further through.  Now let's
talk about which is the best term
insurance.  Friends, the term
insurance which fulfils your requirement.
Term insurance that fits your pocket.  The
term insurance in which
you have taken it after declaring everything is the
best term insurance.
If I talk about whether one should
buy from a private company or a public company, then
obviously friends, LIC has the
advantage here.  There is trust of people somewhere or the other.
If you are taking the policy after understanding everything and
declaring everything and you
understand all its features then
definitely you can go with LIC.  If
you want some feature-rich cover, you want to
add some advances to your product, then in that
case you are
given more options in private companies.  If I
talk about private companies, I would prefer HDFC L, Tata
L, Max Le or your ICC L.
So friends, if you have
any query, then ask us in the comments box.
We will try to answer your questions.  If you
like the video, please like
, share and subscribe.
Thank you.